Abstract
This study is the first generalised effort to compare the forecasting efficacy of dif-
ferent Pareto/NBD model-based forecasts. Monte Carlo Markov Chain (MCMC)-
based estimates, Maximum Likelihood Estimation (MLE), and heuristics are applied
to four different types of forecasts: (1) predicting the future number of purchases a
single customer makes within a given period, (2) identifying active customers who
will make at least one purchase within a given period, (3) identifying the customers
who will belong to the top segments of the customer base, and (4) predicting the
timing of a customer’s next purchase. The results show that the model-based fore-
casts outperform the heuristics regarding predictive power and accuracy for the first
three types of forecasts. MCMC yields slightly better results than MLE and it can
additionally convince with confidence intervals for the number of future purchases.
Forecasting the timing of a customer’s next purchase yields deviations that are too
large to be used in practice.

other than these 4 forecasts, should we try to add something else, is it necessary to do so, or are these comprehensive by themselves?

"The results show that the model-based fore-
casts outperform the heuristics regarding predictive power and accuracy for the first
three types of forecasts"

"MCMC yields slightly better results than MLE and it can
additionally convince with confidence intervals for the number of future purchases"

"Forecasting the timing of a customer’s next purchase yields deviations that are too
large to be used in practice." why is it too large to be used in practice?

"These models assume that a customer continues buy-
ing until an unobserved dropout occurs at which the customer becomes permanently
inactive." 

"The purchase process of a BTYD model describes the purchase pattern of
a customer, whereas the dropout process defines the distribution of the dropout time."

"Today’s system capacities enable a low threshold use of model extensions such as the considera-
tion of both static and time-variant covariates"

"In general, well-fitting
parametric models can play to their strength of coping well with parsimonious data
sets due to their pre-defined structure, whereas ML algorithms can recognise pat-
terns and trends that are not captured by parametric models"

"As both Valendin et al. (2022) and Xie (2020) pointed out, ML routines cause signif-
icantly more computational cost than parametric models"

"Notably, applying boot-
strapping to MLE models involves substantially lower computational and memory
requirements than in ML. This is primarily because bootstrapped ML approaches
require retraining full models for each resample, whereas in parametric settings,
only parameter re-estimation is necessary"

"Thinking of the likelihood as an unnormalised probability distribution, Maxi-
mum Likelihood calculates its mode, i.e., the parameter value(s) yielding the highest
likelihood value"

"Simon and Adler (2022) have shown that the
parameter recovery as well as the individual customers’ purchase forecast improves
significantly when using the median draw of Abe’s (2009) MCMC algorithm rather
than MLE, particularly in the context of small sample data sets"

"As the duration of the customer relationship with a company is not observable in
a non-contractual setting, P(alive) is difficult to assess for real data sets and hence
infeasible for model comparison"

"The first of these objectives is mainly driven by the concept of
customer lifetime value (CLV), which is given by the expected (discounted) future
cash flows from the customer relationship (Gupta et al. 2006) and can be based on
the parameter estimates from the Pareto/NBD model (Glady et al. 2009; Abe 2009;
Bachmann et al. 2021)."

"In the literature to date, the future number of purchases has been used more as a
means to an end in order to compare the goodness-of-fit of different models based
on a handful of empirical data sets (Fader et al. 2005a; Bachmann et al. 2021; Bem-
maor and Glady 2012; Platzer 2021b; Valendin et al. 2022). Simon and Adler (2022)
reported point estimates for the deviations measures in their simulation study, but
their contribution neither contains empirical validation nor confidence intervals.
Still, the magnitude of the expected deviation is of major interest for practitioners
but has not yet been subject of research."

explain each part in quotes in detail one by one. 